README.md, before:

About pommed-light
------------------

This is a stripped-down version of pommed with client, dbus, and ambient light
sensor support removed, optimized for use with dwm and the like.

README for pommed
-----------------

 - Kernel version requirements
 - Supported machines
 - Using pommed
 - Beeper feature
 - When things go wrong


System requirements:
--------------------

Pommed expects standard development headers for libc to be installed, as well
as libpci.

 pommed requires at least a 2.6.25 kernel, due to the use of the new timerfd
 interface that was released as stable with this version.

 February and October 2008 machines require a 2.6.28 kernel for full support.


Using pommed
------------

Launch pommed at startup, a simple init script will do. Your distribution
should take care of this. A standard init script and a systemd service file are
provided.


Keyboard backlight on PowerMac machines
---------------------------------------

The keyboard backlight on PowerMac machines (except the very first ones) is
driven through i2c. You need the i2c-dev kernel module loaded on your system
for pommed to work properly; you can add i2c-dev to /etc/modules to have it
loaded automatically at system startup.


Beeper feature
--------------

The beeper feature relies on the uinput kernel module being loaded. You can
check for its availability by checking for the uinput device node, which is
either one of:
 - /dev/input/uinput
 - /dev/uinput
 - /dev/misc/uinput

Or by checking the output of 
 $ lsmod | grep uinput

If the module is not loaded, load it manually with
 # modprobe uinput
then restart pommed. You'll need to ensure the module is loaded before pommed
starts; to achieve that, add uinput to /etc/modules.

For the curious, as I've been asked a couple times already: pommed uses the
uinput facility to create a userspace input device which handles the console
beep. Once this device is set up, the kernel happily passes down beep events
to pommed through this device, and pommed only needs to ... well, *beep*.


When things go wrong
--------------------

First and foremost: don't panic!

If something doesn't work (or so it appears), there's usually a good reason to
that, and pommed should be able to provide some insight as to what is going
wrong if only you ask it.

By default, pommed uses syslog to log warnings and errors, so check your
system logs. If you can't find anything, running pommed in the foreground
will help a lot; in this mode, pommed will log everything to stderr instead
of syslog, so you'll see every message.

First, stop pommed. Then run
 # pommed -f

Use Ctrl-C to stop pommed, fix the problem, and restart it.

If you still can't see what's wrong, ask for more output by running pommed in
debug mode. Be warned: in this mode, pommed is very chatty.

First, stop pommed. Then run
 # pommed -d

Use Ctrl-C to stop pommed, fix the problem, and restart it.

If the debug mode doesn't offer any hint as to what's going on, then contact
me with the details of your problem and I'll be able to help.

Commit message:

Add MacBookAir 6,2 support
Detect the machine type via dmi and add the proper sysfs files to handle the
backlight brightness level.

We rely on the fact that the backlight driver in use is mba6x_bl. It should work
without it, but the stock intel backlight kernel driver sets the screen brigthness at
~5% or ~95% after suspend, rendering the screen too dark or too light until you
reboot.

Had to add the sysfs file paths for the mba6x_bl driver _before_ the intel ones
because the "discovery" logic just loops the array, and even when the mba6x_bl driver
is loaded the intel sysfs files were used to set the backlight level.

Please note that USB product IDs other than the EUR one are placeholders since I
don't have access to other devices. That should be fixed.

Signed-off-by: L. Alberto Giménez <agimenez@sysvalve.es>

README.md, after:

About pommed-light
------------------

This is a stripped-down version of pommed with client, dbus, and ambient light
sensor support removed, optimized for use with dwm and the like.

README for pommed
-----------------

 - Kernel version requirements
 - Supported machines
 - Using pommed
 - Beeper feature
 - When things go wrong


System requirements:
--------------------

Pommed expects standard development headers for libc to be installed, as well
as libpci.

 pommed requires at least a 2.6.25 kernel, due to the use of the new timerfd
 interface that was released as stable with this version.

 February and October 2008 machines require a 2.6.28 kernel for full support.


Using pommed
------------

Launch pommed at startup, a simple init script will do. Your distribution
should take care of this. A standard init script and a systemd service file are
provided.


Keyboard backlight on PowerMac machines
---------------------------------------

The keyboard backlight on PowerMac machines (except the very first ones) is
driven through i2c. You need the i2c-dev kernel module loaded on your system
for pommed to work properly; you can add i2c-dev to /etc/modules to have it
loaded automatically at system startup.

Backlight driver in MacbookAir6,2 (and 6,1)
-------------------------

There is a known bug of the intel backlight driver that leaves the screen either at
~5% or ~95% brightness after suspension, no matter what actual brightness value you
try to set.

There is a proposed workaround kernel driver (mba6x_bl) that solves the problem, but
it's not yet in mainline. The changes made to pommed to work with MBA6,2 and 6,1 rely
on that driver so you should be using it.

Beeper feature
--------------

The beeper feature relies on the uinput kernel module being loaded. You can
check for its availability by checking for the uinput device node, which is
either one of:
 - /dev/input/uinput
 - /dev/uinput
 - /dev/misc/uinput

Or by checking the output of 
 $ lsmod | grep uinput

If the module is not loaded, load it manually with
 # modprobe uinput
then restart pommed. You'll need to ensure the module is loaded before pommed
starts; to achieve that, add uinput to /etc/modules.

For the curious, as I've been asked a couple times already: pommed uses the
uinput facility to create a userspace input device which handles the console
beep. Once this device is set up, the kernel happily passes down beep events
to pommed through this device, and pommed only needs to ... well, *beep*.


When things go wrong
--------------------

First and foremost: don't panic!

If something doesn't work (or so it appears), there's usually a good reason to
that, and pommed should be able to provide some insight as to what is going
wrong if only you ask it.

By default, pommed uses syslog to log warnings and errors, so check your
system logs. If you can't find anything, running pommed in the foreground
will help a lot; in this mode, pommed will log everything to stderr instead
of syslog, so you'll see every message.

First, stop pommed. Then run
 # pommed -f

Use Ctrl-C to stop pommed, fix the problem, and restart it.

If you still can't see what's wrong, ask for more output by running pommed in
debug mode. Be warned: in this mode, pommed is very chatty.

First, stop pommed. Then run
 # pommed -d

Use Ctrl-C to stop pommed, fix the problem, and restart it.

If the debug mode doesn't offer any hint as to what's going on, then contact
me with the details of your problem and I'll be able to help.
